Blog post about Red Hat Middleware move to IBM (#211)
hibernate/in.relation.to: posts/Yoann/2025-03-24-red-hat-ibm.adoc

= About Red Hat and IBM
Yoann Rodière
:awestruct-tags: ["Red Hat", "IBM", "Community", "Commonhaus"]
:awestruct-layout: blog-post

A few weeks ago, Red Hat announced its Middleware division would move to IBM.
As a change of this nature is likely to raise a few questions, we felt it would be best to provide some information.

== What's happening?

Red Hat employees from the Middleware division are being transferred to an equivalent division at IBM,
with the initial target date set to May 2025.
You can find more information in https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/evolving-our-middleware-strategy[the official announcement].

These employees work for the most part on open-source Java technologies,

> for example Quarkus, whose team https://quarkus.io/blog/quarkus-redhat-strategy/[also commented on the move].

Author: There seems to be other blogs out there already. Maybe I should link to WildFly's as well? https://www.wildfly.org/news/2025/03/05/WildFly_and_Red_Hat_strategy/

= About Red Hat and IBM
Yoann Rodière
:awestruct-tags: ["Red Hat", "IBM", "Community", "Commonhaus"]
:awestruct-layout: blog-post

> A few weeks ago, Red Hat announced its Middleware division would move to IBM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A few weeks ago, Red Hat announced that its Middleware division would move to IBM; this includes several key members of the Hibernate team.
```

> As a change of this nature is likely to raise a few questions, I felt it would be best to provide some information -- even though the team as a whole is not yet ready to provide an official statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== What's happening?

Red Hat employees from the Middleware division are being transferred to an equivalent division at IBM,
with the initial target date set to May 2025.
You can find more information in https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/evolving-our-middleware-strategy[the official announcement].

These employees work for the most part on open-source Java technologies,
for example Quarkus, whose team https://quarkus.io/blog/quarkus-redhat-strategy/[also commented on the move].

When it comes to Hibernate, this affects several of our most active contributors,
and in particular all project leaders.

== What's the impact on Hibernate users and contributors?

> The displayed intent of the move is to keep funding open-source development,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intent of the move is to keep funding open-source development,
```

which implies no negative impact on the open-source software community.

> Early internal communication I received was consistent with this,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> highlighting open-source development as a strategic investment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

As a reminder, I (in part, but mostly the rest of the Hibernate team) have been working a lot on making our projects _more_ open in the past few months:
the re-licensing of https://in.relation.to/2025/03/14/orm-asl/[Hibernate ORM]
and https://in.relation.to/2024/06/10/hibernate-search-7-2-0-Alpha2/#switch-project-license-to-apache-license-2-0[Hibernate Search]
from LGPL to ASL2 is now complete,
and the https://in.relation.to/2024/04/09/hibernate-to-commonhaus/[move of Hibernate to the Commonhaus Foundation] is well under way,
with the final steps being worked on as we speak.

> Also, yes, if you can believe it, these initiatives are a happy coincidence:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These initiatives are a happy coincidence:
```

the Hibernate team started them more than a year ago,

> while we were made aware of the move to IBM almost at the same time as everybody else, a few weeks ago.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while we were made aware of the move to IBM at the same time as everybody else: only a few weeks ago.
```

== Some quotes from Hibernate team members

I took the liberty to collect quotes from fellow Hibernate team members.

> Note this reflects each person's opinion, and is not meant as an official statement from the whole team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These reflects each person's opinion, and is not meant as a statement from the team as a whole.
```
